# hashingproject

This program is an implementation of an externally chained Hash Table.
The purpose of the hash table is to allow for quick O(1) lookup, insertion and removal into the table.
This hash table stores key value pairs which are both strings, this is intended to simulate a username and password database.
Usernames are provided in the names.txt file which must be in the same directory as the executable.
Passwords are generated as a random string of 9 lower-case letters and ciphered using the vigenere cipher.
This encrypted data is fed into the hash table through a file named "encrypteddata.txt that is generated by the Tokenizer class.
The hash table does not have access to the unencrypted paswords similar to ho\w a real database operates.

# How to Use

This program comes with a Makefile, to use it run the command "make" in the command line interface.
This will generate an executable called "run".
Verify that the data file "names.txt" is in the same directory as the executable.
Issue the command "./run" in the command line to run the executable.
No user interaction is required beyond this point and the program will generate two files names "rawdata.txt" and "encrypteddata.txt"
The program will load all the usernames and randomly generated and ciphered passwords into the hash table,
then the Test class will perform tests by ciphering the raw passwords again and verifying they match the data in the hash table.
Issue the command "make clean" to the terminal to clean object files so you can run the program again with new passwords.

Feel free to modify passwordLength and KEY variables to see how it effects the output